# Terminology

This document explains some of the basic terminology defined in the OAuth 2.0 and the OpenID Connect Core 1.0 specifications.

## A

- Access token
  - An authorization issued to the client used to access protected resources.
- Authorization code
  - A code generated by the authorization server used when making request to the token endpoint.
- Authorization grant
  - A credential representing the resource owner's authorization (to access its protected resources) used by the client to obtain an access token.
- Authorization server
  - The server issuing access tokens to the client after successfully authenticating the resource owner and obtaining authorization.

## C

- Claim
  - A piece of information asserted about an entity.
- Client
  - An app making protected resource requests on behalf of the resource owner and with its authorization. The term _client_ does not imply any particular implementation characteristics (e.g., whether the app executes on a server, a desktop, or any other device).
- Client identifier
  - A unique string representing the registration information provided by the client. The client identifier is not a secret; it is exposed to the resource owner. The client identifier is unique to the authorization server.
- Client secret
  - Clients in possession of a client secret may use the HTTP Basic authentication scheme to authenticate with the authorization server. Being a secret, it should not be exposed to the resource owner.
- Code challenge
  - A challenge derived from the code verifier that is sent in the authorization request, to be verified against the later.
- Code challenge method
  - A method that was used to derive the code challenge.
- Code verifier
  - A cryptographically random string that is used to correlate the authorization request to the token request.
- Confidential client type
  - Clients capable of maintaining the confidentiality of their credentials (e.g., client executing on a secure server with restricted access to the client credentials, such as a web app), or capable of secure client authentication using other means.

## I

- ID token
  - Security token that contains claims about the authentication of the end-user by an authorization server when using a client, and potentially other requested claims.

## J

- JSON Web Token (JWT)
  - A compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. Claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted.

## M

- Multi-factor authentication (MFA)
  - An authentication method in which the end-user is granted access only after successfully presenting two or more pieces of evidence (or factors) to an authentication mechanism: knowledge (something the end-user and only the end-user knows), possession (something the end-user and only the end-user has), and inherence (something the end-user and only the end-user is).

## N

- Native app
  - A public client installed and executed on the device used by the resource owner. Protocol data and credentials are accessible to the resource owner. It is assumed that any client authentication credentials included in the app can be extracted. On the other hand, dynamically issued credentials such as access tokens or refresh tokens can receive an acceptable level of protection.

## O

- OAuth 2.0
  - An authorization framework that enables a third-party app to obtain limited access to an HTTP service, either on behalf of a resource owner by orchestrating an approval interaction between the resource owner and the HTTP service, or by allowing the third-party app to obtain access on its own behalf.
- OpenID Connect (OIDC)
  - A simple identity layer on top of the OAuth 2.0 protocol. It enables clients to verify the identity of the end-user based on the authentication performed by an authorization server, as well as to obtain basic profile information about the end-user in an interoperable and REST-like manner.

## P

- Public client type
  - Clients incapable of maintaining the confidentiality of their credentials (e.g., clients executing on the device used by the resource owner, such as an installed native app and an user-agent-based, or single-page, app), and incapable of secure client authentication via any other means.

## R

- Resource owner
  - An entity capable of granting access to a protected resource. When the resource owner is a person, it is referred to as the end-user.
- Resource server
  - The server hosting the protected resources, capable of accepting and responding to protected resource requests using access tokens.

## S

- Scope
  - The scope of the access request. The value of the scope parameter is expressed as a list of space-delimited, case-sensitive strings. The strings are defined by the authorization server.
- State
  - An opaque value used by the client to maintain state between the request and response. The authorization server includes this value when redirecting the user-agent back to the client. The parameter should be used for preventing cross-site request forgery (CSRF).

## U

- User-agent-based app
  - A public client in which the client code is downloaded from a web server and executes within a user-agent (e.g., web browser) on the device used by the resource owner. Protocol data and credentials are easily accessible (and often visible) to the resource owner. Often referred to as a single-page app.

## W

- Web app
  - A confidential client running on a web server. The client credentials as well as any access token issued to the client are stored on the web server and are not exposed to or accessible by the resource owner.
